# CSDR Cloud Spatial Data Repository

Please note that this documentation is outdated. DVC is an artifact of a previous version. We have migrated away from this.

## Quickstart

- Create Python environment with GDAL and install the dependencies
- Read [DVC](https://dvc.org/doc/start) docs
  - [Install DVC](https://dvc.org/doc/install)
  - Alternatively, change it to a local directory (ideally outside the git repo) - for example `out_s3_path: /tmp/csdr/`
- Run `csdr dvc status` - it should list all pipelines need to be run
- Run `dvc dag` - have a look at the graph of compute
- Then run `dvc repro -P` at root dir to run all compute
- Finally, run `csdr dvc publish --no-commit` to generate the provenance JSON files

Make some changes to some `params.yaml` - or create a new datasets/geometries/products pipeline! - and then repeat

## Installation

First, ensure that GDAL is installed in your environment. To install the dependencies for this project, you can use pip with the pyproject.toml file:

### Using pip

```bash
# Install directly from pyproject.toml
pip install -e .
```

### Using Poetry

If you prefer using Poetry for dependency management:

```bash
# Install Poetry if you don't have it already
pip install poetry

# Install dependencies
poetry install
```

## Development

For development purposes, you can install the package with development dependencies:

```bash
# Using pip
pip install -e ".[dev]"

# Using Poetry
poetry install --with dev
```

To use pre-commit to automatically run ruff, mypy and other checks on each commit, make sure the development dependencies are installed and then run:

`pre-commit install`

Note that you will need to run `pre-commit run --all-files` if any of the hooks in `.pre-commit-config.yaml` change.

## Pipeline

We are using [DVC](https://dvc.org/doc/start) to manage the pipeline, this allows, us to track the dependencies between the datasets and geometries, and chain multiple pipelines together.

See installation instructions on the [DVC website](https://dvc.org/doc/install).

There are a few components to each pipeline

- `params.yaml` - contains the parameters for the pipeline - these will be put into provenance files for visibility
- `dvc.yaml` - contains the stages for the pipeline (and internal variables)
- `dvc.lock` - contains the resolved dependencies for the pipeline - this is generated by `dvc repro`
- `provenance.json` - contains the provenance for the pipeline - this is generated by `csdr dvc publish`

### Data S3 bucket

This is used for storing intermediary datasets, geometries, and products - it does not cache input data, and it not a DVC remote (see DVC limitations). It is currently specified in each `params.yaml` file.

Alternatively, change it to a local directory (ideally outside the git repo) - for example `/tmp/csdr/`

### Check status of the pipeline

This will print a list of pipelines that have changed, and need to be recomputed. If you want to not track input datasets (that need to be ingested), you can use the `--allow-missing` flag, it will only track other dependencies - including code, intermediary datasets and geometries, etc.

```bash
csdr dvc status
```

You can also filter by pipeline type:

- `csdr dvc status datasets`
- `csdr dvc status geometries`
- `csdr dvc status products`

### Reproducing the pipelines (locally)

You can compute all datasets and geometries by running:

```bash
dvc repro -P
```

**Note** if you do not have input/ingested datasets, these will all be downloaded locally - you can use the `--allow-missing` [flag](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/repro#--allow-missing) skip stages with no other changes than missing data

- This is useful if you are using existing intermediary datasets/geometries and only want to compute the products. Otherwise you will need to ingest and recompute the intermediary datasets/geometries, if the input data doesn't exist.

### Datasets

You can compute all datasets by running:

```bash
dvc repro -R datasets/
```

Note, you can also reproduce a specific pipeline by running:

```bash
dvc repro <pipeline-type>/<dataset-name>/dvc.yaml

# For example
dvc repro datasets/global-mangrove-watch-annual-extent/dvc.yaml
```

### Geometries

You can compute all geometries by running:

```bash
dvc repro -R geometries/
```

### Products

You can compute all products by running:

```bash
dvc repro -R products/
```

### Using outputs

There is an example of how to use the outputs in the `examples` folder.

- [Global Mangrove Watch + ABS ASGS States](examples/global-mangrove-watch/abs-asgs-ste.ipynb)

### Provenance

The `csdr dvc publish` command will generate a provenance file for each pipeline. This will include the pipeline file, the git commit hash, the git commit date, and the dependencies.

```bash
csdr dvc publish
```

**Note** this will also commit the changes to the git repository (it makes two commits, one before and one after the provenance generation). You can skip this by using the `--no-commit` flag.

### DVC Limitations

- You can't template params/variables in an entire repo - so there is no easy way to have a high-level variable and apply to all pipelines.
- Datasets stored on DVC Remotes can't be used in the same way as direct S3 access (eg zarr or geoparquet files), so we are using datasets in S3 as ["external dependencies"](https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/pipelines/external-dependencies-and-outputs).
- DVC is known to have performance issues hashing larger datasets, when we come across this we will need to wrap up large datasets with some placeholder file for DVC to track - this isn't too difficult, but still work that needs to be done when we hit this issue

## Build and Push Workflow

This workflow builds a Docker container image and pushes it to Amazon ECR in two scenarios:

- **Main Branch:** A merge to `main` automatically triggers the workflow. The image is tagged with a version (based on git tags) and additionally gets a `latest` tag.

- **Manual Trigger:** Developers can manually trigger the workflow (using `workflow_dispatch`) to create and push a test build from their feature branch without the `latest` tag.

**Note:** If you build from a feature branch, you will need to visit AWS Batch and create a new revision of the job definition `csdr-dev-env-csdr-cloud-spatial` that uses your custom container image tag.

## Building and Running the Docker Image

To build the Docker image locally using [Buildx](https://docs.docker.com/buildx/working-with-buildx/), run:

```bash
docker buildx build . --tag csdr-cloud-spatial:latest
```

Once built, you can run the container:

```bash
docker run -it --rm 
  -e GIT_USER_NAME="Your Name" 
  -e GIT_USER_EMAIL="your_email@example.com" 
  -e GIT_DEPLOY_KEY_B64="base64-encoded-private-key" 
  csdr-cloud-spatial:latest
```

### Providing GitHub Deploy Key

This project requires access to a private GitHub repository (`git@github.com:SustainableDevelopmentReform/csdr-cloud-spatial.git`) during execution. This is managed through a **GitHub Deploy Key**, stored in **base64 format**.

You can provide the key in two ways:

1. **Via Environment Variable (Local Development):**

   ```bash
   export GIT_DEPLOY_KEY_B64=$(base64 -w 0 ~/.ssh/csdr-cloud-spatial-deploy-key)
   docker run -e GIT_DEPLOY_KEY_B64="$GIT_DEPLOY_KEY_B64" csdr-cloud-spatial:latest
   ```

2. **Via AWS Secrets Manager (Production / AWS Batch):**

   If `GIT_DEPLOY_KEY_B64` is not provided as an environment variable, the container will attempt to fetch the key from AWS Secrets Manager. The secret should be in this format:

   ```json
   {
     "private_key_b64": "BASE64_STRING_FOR_PRIVATE_KEY",
     "public_key_b64": "BASE64_STRING_FOR_PUBLIC_KEY"
   }
   ```

   Make sure your container's IAM role has permission to read the secret:

   ```json
   {
     "Effect": "Allow",
     "Action": "secretsmanager:GetSecretValue",
     "Resource": "arn:aws:secretsmanager:REGION:ACCOUNT_ID:secret:csdr/github-deploy-key-b64"
   }
   ```

### Setting Git Identity (Optional)

For provenance generation or Git interactions that require user identity, you can set the following environment variables:

```bash
-e GIT_USER_NAME="CI Bot" 
-e GIT_USER_EMAIL="ci@example.com"
```

If not set, the container will proceed without Git user identity.
